<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<p id="note-title" epub:type="endnote">* This article was written before the Holocaust in Lebanon of Summer 1982. At the time of this writing, after weeks of indiscriminate massacres of many thousands of Lebanese and Palestinians by Israeli military forces, it is impossible to predict whether the Zionist occupation as far north as Beirut will result in a “North Bank” as militarized and permanently occupied as the West Bank. The invasion also has implications for the analysis included herein of the oppression of Oriental Jews by Arab states-the Jewish quarter in West Beirut has been subject to the same Israeli shelling and destruction as the dominant Moslem quarters of that part of Beirut. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-title" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>E. A. Finn, Palestine Peasantry (London:- Marshall Brothers, 1923), p. 10. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Ibid., pp. 11-12. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Elihu Grant, The People of Palestine (Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott, 1907 and 1922), pp. 225-28. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>A Survey of Palestine: Prepared in December 1945 and January 1946 for the Information of the Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry (Palestine: Government Printer, 1946, pp. 237-38. Note: 1 metric dunum = .1 hectare = .2471 acre. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>William Polk et al., Backdrop to Tragedy (Boston: Beacon, 1957), p. 235; and Efraim Orni, Agrarian Reform and Social Progress in Israel (Jerusalem: Keren Kayemeth Leisrael, 1972), pp. 48-49. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Orni, Agrarian Reform and Social Progress, p. 51; Janet Abu-Lughod, "The Demographic Transformation of Palestine," in Ibrahim Abu-Lughod, ed., The Transformation of Palestine (Evanston: Northwestern University Press, 1971), p. 140; Abraham Granott, Agrarian Reform and the Record of Israel (London: Eyre and Spottiswoode, 1956), p. 28; and Survey of Palestine, pp. 114, 372. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Arie Bober, The Other Israel (Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, 1972), p. 38. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Raphael Patai, ed., The Complete Diaries of Theodor Herzl, trans. Harry Zohn (New York: The Herzl Press, 1960), 1:88. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Orni, Agrarian Reform and Social Progress, pp. 50, 52. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Census Office of Palestine, Report and General Abstracts of the Census of 1922 (Jerusalem: Greek Convent Press, 1923), pp. 2-4. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Asia (New York), February 1919, reprinted in R. P. Stevens, ed., Zionism and Palestine Before the Mandate (Beirut: Institute for Palestine Studies, 1972), pp. 79-80. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-11" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Survey of Palestine, pp. 244, 289-94. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-12" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Census of 1922, pp. 3-5. The bedouin population of Beersheba continued to evade the census as a conscription measure and is thus always underestimated. In any case, inclusion of an estimated 72,893 bedouin reduces the proportion of Jews to 10%. The figure of 66,553 bedouin was also suggested and carried over in all successive census, including that of the Israelis in November 1948. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-13" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-14" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Orni, Agrarian Reform and Social Progress, p. 50. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-14" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-15" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Sir John Hope Simpson, Palestine: Report on Immigration, Land Settlement and Development (London: Great Britain Colonial Office, 1930), pp. 26, 34, 48, 64, 141. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-15" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-16" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Ibid., pp. 65-71, 142. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-16" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-17" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Ibid., pp. 56, 73, 134-35, 141. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-17" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-18" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Bober, The Other Israel, p. 11. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-18" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-19" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Cited in Simpson, Palestine: Report on Immigration, p. 53. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-19" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-20" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Census of Palestine 1931 (Jerusalem, 1932), p. xv. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-20" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-21" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Shaw Commission Report 1930 (Cmd. .3530), p. 118, cited in Sami Hadawi, ed., Village Statistics 1945 (Beirut: P. L. O. Research Center, 1970), p. 27. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-21" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-22" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Abraham Granott, The Land System in Palestine (London: Eyre and Spottiswodde, 1952), p. 277. Cf. Orni, Agrarian Reform and Social Progress, p. 52. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-22" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-23" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Davar (Mapai daily), September 9, 1967, cited in Abdullah Schleifer, The Fall of Jerusalem (New York: Monthly Review Press, 1972), p. 19. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-23" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-24" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Survey of Palestine, pp. 238, 267. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-24" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-25" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Hadawi, Village Statistics 1945, p. 19. The Official Land Valuer of the Mandate Government during 1935-48, Hadawi participated in the compilation of Village Statistics 1945 as originally published by Great Britain. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-25" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-26" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Statistical Abstract of Palestine 1944-45 (Jerusalem: Government Printer, 1946), pp. 17, 21. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-26" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-27" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>General Monthly Bulletin of Current Statistics 12, no. 12 (December 1947):686. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-27" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-28" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Granott, Land System in Palestine, p. 278. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-28" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-29" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Michael Bar-Zohar, Ben-Gurion: The Armed Prophet (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 1967), pp. 103, 125, 162. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-29" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-30" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Ibid., pp. 107-108. Ironically, about the same number of Jews were killed in 1940 when Irgun and Haganah terrorists bombed the Patria, a ship full of refugees, in Haifa harbor. And in 1948 Begin narrowly escaped death at the hands of Haganah forces led by Yigal Allon and Yitshak Rabin. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-30" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-31" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Menachem Begin, The Revolt (Tel Aviv: Hadar, 1964), pp. 162-64. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-31" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-32" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Ibid., p. 165. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-32" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-33" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Granott, Agrarian Reform and the Record of Israel, pp. 88-89. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-33" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-34" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The most thorough legal analysis is provided in Sabri Jiryis, The Arabs in Israel: 1948-1966 (Beirut: Institute for Palestine Studies, 1969), chap. 2. The Palestinian attorney has written a new edition published by Monthly Review Press, 1976-relevant chapters are 4 and 5. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-34" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-35" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Orni, Agrarian Reform and Social Progress, p. 62; and Granott, Agrarian Reform and the Record of Israel, pp. 28, 31. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-35" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-36" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Statutes passed in 1960 and 1967, cited in Walter Lehn, "The Jewish National Fund," Journal of Palestine Studies 3, no. 4 (Summer 1974):88. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-36" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-37" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Abu-Lughod, "Demographic Transformation of Palestine," p. 162. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-37" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-38" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Dr. Israel Shahak, Chairman of the Israeli League for Human and Civil Rights, Report on Arab Villages Destroyed in Israel (Tel Aviv, February 15, 1973). Dr. Shahak estimated that out of 120,000 bedouin in pre-1948 Beersheba, 25,000 remained. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-38" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-39" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Martin Gilbert, The Jews of Arab Lands (London: World Organization of Jews from Arab Countries, 1976), Map 14. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-39" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-40" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Jerusalem Post, June 15, 16 and July 21, 1966, cited in I. M. Oweiss, The Israeli Economy (Washington, D.C.: Georgetown University, 1974), p. 20. <a href="alienation.xhtml#noteref-40" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
